#labels Phase-Support
This page is an overview of implemented features in the *hAtom plugin for Eclipse 3.4 (Ganymede)*.

==Code completion==

Completion (or Code Assist in Eclipse docs), has been written from scratch to handle XHTML 1.0 tags and hAtom microformats separately. Code assist is activated with a CTRL+SPACE shortcut; a popup containing either XHTML tags or hAtom keywords is opened. XHTML tags are shown whenever the editor cursor is placed in a XHTML tag part that is _not_ an attribute value. When cursor is placed inside an attribute value, hAtom completion is performed. No completion popup is opened inside comments or processing instruction tags.


[http://eclipse-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/Eclipse_codeassist_001.png http://eclipse-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/Eclipse_codeassist_001.png]


Both XHTML and hAtom suggestion are filtered while the user types. Current version does not support Documentation assist (as happens in Netbeans plugin).

==Code Highlight==

The default color for hAtom keywords highlight is crimson. This setting can be changed using the dedicated Preferences item in *Window > Preferences > Hatom Editor*, where the following preferences can be edited:
* hAtom keyword color
* XML string (attribute values that are NOT hAtom keywords)
* XHTML tags
* XML processing instruction

* XHTML DOCTYPE declaration

[http://eclipse-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/Eclipse_hatom_prefs_001.png http://eclipse-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/Eclipse_hatom_prefs_001.png]

==Validation==

Hatom validation process is started by clicking the button with the microformats icon on the main toolbar. [http://eclipse-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/hatomButton.png http://eclipse-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/hatomButton.png]

For every file to be validated, a new output tab is opened, as shown in the picture below. Error reports can be explored using the down and up arrows placed on the upper-right corner of the validation view. The currently selected report is highlighted in blue. Every error report item is a row in the view, and shows
* the error message
* the complete node that contains the error
* the path of the wrong node tag (if available) with the following form: _html > body > div_
* the total number of errors occurred

[http://eclipse-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/Eclipse_validator_001.png http://eclipse-hatom-plugin.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/images/Eclipse_validator_001.png]

Note that the current version +supports only one validation at the time+, every new validation task must wait for a previous validation to end before it could be started. 